---
title: "Mosaic Task Breakdown"
disqus: https://hackmd.io/OrizlHecSXKV1-Pi1I5LpQ
---

# Mosaic Task Breakdown

| Version | Last Updated | Component |
| ------- | ------------ | --------- |
| 0.14    | 13/01/2020   | Mosaic Task Breakdown   |

**Meeting date/time:** N/A

**Editor:** Abhay Kumar Singh

**Team:** N/A

---

# Tasks:

## CoReputation

**Specification:** https://hackmd.io/bhxONpnpRZOTw3SgYr3TiQ
**PM document:** https://github.com/mosaicdao/mosaic-pm/blob/master/specification-discussions/20200108-coreputation.md

- CoReputationGenesis contract
    - CoReputationGenesis is the contract that holds all the variables used in CoReputation contract.
    - This contract should not hold any logical function, this is pure storage contract containing only variables.
    - We should define `ValidatorStatus` enum. ValidatorStatus enum values are `Undefined`, `Slashed`, `Staked`, `Deregistered`.
    - We should define `ValidatorInfo` struct. Proposed state variables in struct are below:
        - Validator status
        - Reputation value
    - We should define mapping of validator address versus ValidatorInfo.
        - `mapping(address => ValidatorInfo) public validators`


- CoReputation contract
    - The CoReputation contract should inherit `CoReputationGenesis` contract.
    - `CoConsensusModule` will have fixed constant `coConsensus` address from the genesis.
    - CoConsensus.setup method is not needed since `coConsensus` address is constant.
    - The CoReputation contract should follow the proxy pattern for deployment.
    - `CoReputation` is `MasterCopyNonUpgradable`, `CoReputationGenesis`, `CoConsensusModule`

- CoConsensus should be able to update validators information
     - CoConsensus contract should be able to add validator in CoReputation contract. Only CoConsensus should update validator information 
     - Validator reputation value should be updated. 
     - Validator status should be marked to `Staked`, if validator status is `Undefined` and he has non zero reputation value.
     - Validator status should be marked to `Deregistered` when his current status is `Staked` and reputation value changes to zero value.
<s>
     - <b>TBD</b>: CoReputation::upsertValidator() returns an enumeration value indicating if the validator should be joined, logged out, or do-nothing (for example if it was slashed in CoReputation already).
</s> 
     - Proposal:
         ```solidity
             function upsertValidator(
                 address _validator,
                 uint256 _reputation
             )
                 external
                 onlyCoConsensus
         ```
         
- CoConsensus should be able to slash a validator that violates slashing conditions.
    - Only CoConsensus can call this method
    - Validator status should be `Staked`
    - Validator status should not be `Slashed`
    - Validator status should be changed to `Slashed`
    - Validator reputation value should change to zero
    - Proposal:
        ```solidity
            function slash(address _validator)
                external
                onlyCoConsensus    
                hasStaked(_validator)
                hasNotSlashed(_validator)
        ```    
        
- Anyone should be able to read reputation value of a Validator
    - Proposal:
        ```solidity
            function getReputation(address _validator)
                external
                view
                returns (uint256)
        ```    
- Implement `isSlashed` interface
    - Proposal:
        ```
            function isSlashed(address _validator)
                public
                view
                returns(bool)
        ```

## Reputation

**Specification:** https://hackmd.io/bhxONpnpRZOTw3SgYr3TiQ
**PM document:** https://github.com/mosaicdao/mosaic-pm/blob/master/specification-discussions/20200108-coreputation.md

- When slashing a validator, Validator's reputation should be set to 0.
    - In current implementation when Valiator is slashed, his reputation is not set to zero. It should be updated to zero value.


## utMOST

Implement utMOST token
- It inherits all the standard ERC20 token
- Constructor for the **utMOST** contract:
  - It would accept parameters to set `TOKEN_SYMBOL`, `TOKEN_NAME`, `TOKEN_DECIMALS`, `TOTAL_SUPPLY` for an ERC20Token. 
- Storage named **coGateway** to store coGateway address. It will be a hard-coded address. ConsensusCogateway proxy is at 0x00..004d02 (see https://hackmd.io/CvX0fkpOQjiPdQi2jC5_tA).
- `wrap` method to convert base coin to `utMost`.
  - Proposal
    ```solidity
    function wrap(
        
    )
        external
        payable
        returns (bool success_)
    ```

- `unwrap` method to convert `utMost` to the base token.
    - Proposal
        ```solidity
        function unwrap(
            uint256 unWrapAmount
        )
            external
        ```
        
- `increaseSupply` method increases the total token supply. It can only be called by coGateway contract.

- `decreaseSupply` method decreases the total token supply. It can only be called by coGateway contract.

## Origin Observer
1. Refactor the Anchor contract
Overview: 
    We have following 2 anchor contracts.
    - Anchor on origin chain
    - OriginObserver on auxiliary chain.
    
Both of these contracts has common functionalities related to anchoring of the state roots.
These 2 contracts differ as below
- The anchor on the origin chain is a consensus module whereas the origin observer on the auxiliary chain is a coconsensus module.
- The origin observer contract will inherit from GenesisOriginObserver, whereas the anchor contract will not.
- 
This task is to refactor the Anchor contract so that it can be inherited by both Anchor contract on origin a

## CoConsensus

## Protocore

## Consensus Cogateway

## Genesis file generation

## Validator

- As a validator, I should be able to subscribe to the  entities from the graph node.
    - We should create Subscriptio Queries class and define susbcription queries for the different entities
    - Implement GraphClient client library to intract with graph node
    - Implement Subscriber class with below methods
        - Subscribe
        - Unsubscribe
        -  