---
title: "utMOST"
disqus: https://hackmd.io/jIcgZFMATI-zCGoz8lDBQg
---

# utMOST

| Version | Last Updated | Component |
| ------- | ------------ | --------- |
| 0.14    | 08/01/2020   | utMOST   |

**Meeting date/time:** N/A

**Editor:** Jayesh Bairagi

**Team:** N/A

---

## Overview

`utMOST` contract will be an ERC20 implementation for the auxiliary chain. We will be inheriting ERC20 functionalities from the ERC20 standards like `TOKEN_SYMBOL`, `TOKEN_NAME`, `TOKEN_DECIMALS`, `TOKENS_MAX`, `mint`, `burn`, `transfer`, `transferFrom`, `approve`.

`utMOST` contract will provide `ConsensusCogateway` the permission for increasing and decreasing the supply of the `utMOST` tokens in the network. It will function as the base token to pay for gas consumption on the auxiliary chain.

`utMOST` contract will handle the wrapping i.e, conversion of base token to the ERC20 most token and unwrapping i.e, conversion of ERC20 most token to the base token.


## User stories
- As a ConsensusCogateway contract, I should be able to mint utMOST as ERC20 and unwrap to base token for any address.
- As a User of ERC20 tokens, I should be able to burn only my ERC20 tokens.
- As a User of ERC20 tokens, I should be able to transfer tokens to other users.
- As a User of ERC20 tokens, I should be able to approve an allowance for a spender.
- As a spender user for ERC20 tokens, I should be able to transfer the ERC20 token to other user.
- As a spender user for ERC20 tokens, I should be able to burnFrom the ERC20 token.
- As a User of ERC20 tokens, I should be able to wrap base token to utMOST erc20 tokens.
- As a User of ERC20 tokens, I should be able to unwrap utMOST erc20 token to base tokens.


## Tasks
- Inherits standard ERC20 token.
- Constructor for **utMOST** contract :
    -    It would accept parameters to set `TOKEN_SYMBOL`, `TOKEN_NAME`, `TOKEN_DECIMALS`, `TOTAL_SUPPLY` for an ERC20Token. 
- Storage named **coGateway** to store coGateway address. It will be hard-coded address. ConsensusCogateway proxy is at 0x00..004d02 (see https://hackmd.io/CvX0fkpOQjiPdQi2jC5_tA).
- `wrap` method to convert base coin to `utMost`.
    - Proposal
        ```solidity
        function wrap(
            
        )
            external
            payable
        ```

- `unwrap` method to convert `utMost` to base coin.
    - Proposal
        ```solidity
        function unwrap(
            uint256 unWrapAmount
        )
            external
        ```
        
- `increaseSupply` method increases the total token supply. It can only be called by coGateway contract.

- `decreaseSupply` method decreases the total token supply. It can only be called by coGateway contract.
        

## Assumptions

## Out of scope

## Open questions

- What will be the total token cap ? MOSAIC_CORE_MAX_BASECOIN_DEPOSIT
- Who will be setting the cogateway address ? Either of below option :
    - Validators. If this option is chosen then how do we trust the validator. Bad validators can set corrupt coGateway address.
    - utMost token address will be in genesis file.

     Answer: Hard-code constant in the utMOST contract. ConsensusCogateway proxy is at `0x00..004d02` (see https://hackmd.io/CvX0fkpOQjiPdQi2jC5_tA)
    

## Approach

---

## Meeting notes

### Meeting 1

date/time:
attendees:

Ben: Balances of the validators shouldn’t be confirmable 

### Meeting 2

date / time: 10/01/2020

To burn tokens, UTMots::burn() function is used. In later implementation, bulk burning functionality will be enabled (tokens will be burned on origin as a bulk operation initiated  by some party).



## Goals

The goal of the `utMOST` contract are:

- To have a base token on the auxiliary chain that will used to pay for gas consumption.

- To have an ERC20 based token which will have features

  - Token symbol(`TOKEN_SYMBOL`): `utMOST`
  - Token name(`TOKEN_NAME`): `Utility Token Most`
  - Token decimals(`TOKEN_DECIMALS`): `18`
  - Token cap(`TOKENS_MAX`): `<TBD>`
  - mint
  - burn
  - transfer
  - transferFrom
  - approve

- Only the `ConsensusCogateway` address will have the permission to increase and decrease the base token supply in the network.

- To be able to handle the conversion of ERC20 most token to the base token and the conversion of base token to the ERC20 most token.

